---
t: "GUTTA'S TOTE"
s: "vrguttagutta"
a: "VRGuttaGutta"
d: "2016-03-06"
c: "I just wanted to say thank you to the community! I had never attempted to grow a thing before and failed quite a bit in the get go, <strong>but with all of the help from this place I'm topping and LSTing like a madman.</strong> All of which I thought in the beginning was too overwhelming to get into. I have two builds at the moment, one Brute and one Tote. I plan on using one a filter once I get closer to flowering. That is something I need to research more myself. I want to try and run a single filter which connects to both buckets. <h3>BRUTE STUFF</h3>I purchased the brute trash cans that are not flat inside at the bottom. The ones that are raised in a circle about an inch inside. When I cut through the bottom of the top trash can to accommodate the 5 gallon pot, <strong>I used the excess circle piece that was cut out as my drainage</strong> and drilled holes for over flow into the lid portion. I drilled holes out of the bottom of the lower bucket which lead directly into the main drainage chamber inside the lid. I used 5 bolts and nuts and drilled them in evenly around the bucket. I then sat the 2nd bucket comfortably above the bolts. This allows for the top of the plant to start at the bottom of the 2nd bucket, helping with he space situation.<h3>TOTE STUFF</h3>The tote build features <strong>a 300w LED light, two rolls of LED light strips</strong>, 5 gallon smart pots and intake plus exhaust fans. The containers are two 55 gallon totes and three lids. The construction is pretty straightforward. The middle lid has a hole cut through the entire middle. It is just there to lock the top tote in. I cut out a hole on the bottom of the top tote the same size as the one on the lid. <strong>This allows for a nice and simple way to view the plants</strong> because the light is attached to lid. I cut out two holes the size of the 5 gallon smart pots in the excess of the hole cut to accommodate the lid in the middle of the two totes. As with the brute bucket, I used a lid for the drainage. The tote sits comfortably on top of lid to drain."
v: "4387"
g: "cfl,tote,ufo"

z: "B000O8I474,B001B1C4G0,B00BPIWY28,B01B4GQ6MO"
